# Pauldron

A CLI and comment tool that helps us talk about code.

Use Pauldron to:
* Reduce the time it takes to onboard newbies into large codebases
* Call out idiomatic sections of code in your codebase
* Highlight technical debt, code smells or other issues

## Developing

Pauldron is a CLI tool written in Java 11 with Micronaut and PicoCLI, backed by ANTLR4 lexers and parsers.

To get started:

1. Ensure you have the GraalVM Java 11 SDK installed (version `20.1.0.r11` can be easily installed via SDKMAN)
2. Configure ANTLR4 - a guide exists [here](https://github.com/antlr/antlr4/blob/master/doc/getting-started.md)
3. Clone the codebase
4. Import the project into your IDE of choice.
5. Use this handy one liner to build and run the CLI application (command and options are just an example):

> `./gradlew assemble && java -jar build/libs/cli-0.1-all.jar scan -d currentDir -s score-asc --no-recursion --verbose`

### Using ANTLR4 for Lexing and Parsing

You can find the source code for lexing and parsing in [src/main/antlr](src/main/antlr).

Each language we want to support should have it's own antlr4 files in it's own package. Currently we only support java
though I want to expand that out quickly to at include C#, Python and Javascript / Typescript.

To build new parsing functionality you'll need to:

1. Define your grammar (you can find a good guide [here](https://tomassetti.me/antlr-mega-tutorial/#lexers-and-parser))
2. Compile your antlr4 code with `antlr4 your-grammar.g4` (assuming you've followed the setup detailed above)
3. Compile the java classes generated by antlr: `javac *.java`
4. Run the antlr4 test rig with some input: `grun your-grammar your-grammar-command`.

    4a. You can add `-tree` to print the output in a tree format in your terminal, or `-gui` to see a graphical tree representation of your input as recognized by your parser.
5. In your terminal, type in the text you want to parse, hit enter, and then on a UNIX system hit CTRL+D and on windows CTRL+Z to signal to the terminal you are done typing stuff.
6. Check the output to see if your text was parsed as you expected.